30/12/25 - I have started to research what kind of scope my project will have. I have decided that based on my PDD, my project will not contain much code and alone will not satisfy a significant build on the project. I have started to look for ideas on how to expand my project to include more security and alert features for the end user.

05/01/26 - I have researched some methodologies and concluded that some agile technique is the best technique, as I will constantly test my project for errors, so a development loop is needed

10/01/26 - I have started working on the project report, particularly the covers, literatire review and trying to get a meeting set up with my consultant

10-02-2026 - I have started implementing a botnet to the VM, as just finished creating a custom ruleset when using Brute Force while logging in.

11-02-2026 - I have experimented with some cases to expand my project, such as redirecting the host to a custom html page if the host fails the password many times. However I have cancelled these goals as they are far too complex to setup. I will start to implement and expand something closer to the project.

14-02-26 - After multiple trial and error, I have expanded my project to include sending an alert to both the user and recipient to alert of any unknown user credentials. This code will be updated in github today. Alert is reflected in the Wazuh dashboard and rule 5710 is associated with it. After speaking to my consultant regarding some doubts to my project regarding the size and scope of the project, the consultant suggested that I should expand my project, by adding more features so I can get more code into the project. The consultant also expressed that I should start to engage with the project report, as well as to thoroughly document my code and what I have done every day, which I have started doing in this diary, as well as uploading code into GitHub

15/02 - I have added incident_mail in github, which I have been working on for the last couple of days. This file sends an email to a given recipient if there seems to be an invalid SSH account trying to log in to Virtualbox. Uses a specific portID and also automatically seen by Wazuh. I would suggest expanding my project in one more way before moving on to the design part of the project. I have started coding on simulating an attack on the machine, and see how the SIEM and the VM would react, so I will be monitoring logs, the Wazuh dashboard and the behaviour of the VM

16/02 - I am working on another python file called threat_gen.py. As defined on my PDD, this will simulate an SSH attack on the Windows VM, where I will be running the command in the UBuntu VM, and seeing how the logs react. I will be adding this imcomplete code today, with the hope of finishing this .py file in around a day or two

18/02 - I have finished threat_gen.py. I will now update this code into github today. However upon testing threat_gen, the wazuh manager picks up the threat and shows it on the dashboard, however it does not update the logs. I will be working on a solution for the next couple of days. After this, my final piece of code would be to test this on the windows VM, as all this code works on the ubuntu machine. 

22/02 - Took me a couple of days, but I have finally finished crit_gen.py. Will add this code to github today. When this code is executed, wazuh will trigger a high alert and will automatically block and delete this user from accessing the ubuntu machine. I will now be finalizing my code by linking all this to the windows VM, then moving to design

23/02 - A configuration file, named ossec.conf was added today. Please note that NOT ALL CODE OR CONFIGURATIONS was generated by myself, so I will be specifying my parts of the file at the end. I am still working on generating a threat from the windows client, and checking if the Wazuh manager catches it. Code for this will be added today

24/02 - I have finished my initial build and will upload my last .py file today. I have started building a custom dashboard as requested on my PDD which will contain live threat data and analytics, which will of course update in real time. I will also upload my design prototypes today

02/03 - I have finally finished my base project, and will continue to work on the report. I may implement small features until the first code submission. I had a problem uploading the design prototypes however I will update them today. My PDD is currently fully satisfied and beyond

06/03 - A separate python file called core_analyzer.py was created due to the original wazuhClient.py having some issues making the wrong alerts at the wrong time. This was caught during the final testing phase. I fixed this by creating this new python file which also derives some code from wazuhClient.py

15/03 - I have uploaded some python and HTML files which are part of the design & mailing system. I have also been building my report, particularly around the build process. I will need to collate my plan to run the code for the project package submission

17/03 - Today I have implemented my final feature before I submit the project package. This feature automatically checks the downloads folder for any suspicious files. I have tested a standard EICAR file which is universal and is automatically removed. The ossec.conf files for both the Windows client and the Ubuntu VM nneeds setting up before using this feature, so it will not be suitable in terms of scalability.

25/03 - Working on the report, and also the Project Output submission file. I am currently running the instructions on how to run my code, as my project requires a LOT of setting up before putting in the code. 

01/04 - I have finished the project output submission, and I will start making some little changes towards existing files already uploaded into gihub. These changes were made based on further testing and validation of the code, during the project output submission. Now I have started work on the Final Report, where I have finished the literature review and moving on more into Chapter 3


